# Alternating Sign Matrix Varieties.
This project will be led by Ayah Almousa (Minnesota) and Patricia Klein (Texas A&M). Alternating Sign Matrix (ASM) varieties, which were introduced by Weigandt in 2018 building off of work of Fulton.  ASM varieties are affine varieties that generalize matrix Schubert varieties. The primary goals of this project are to write functions that output the Fulton generators for an ASM ideal given a permutation, ASM, or rank table. It would also be useful to implement code to compute the antidiagonal initial ideal (à la Knutson--Miller, Weigandt), and to compute the regularity of a matrix Schubert variety.   For regularity, we would like to implement two strategies: one via permutation statistics using recent work of Pechenik, Speyer, and Weigandt (only for Schuberts, faster for large $n$) and one combining Knutson--Miller and Conca--Varbaro with Macaulay2's already increased efficiency with monomial ideals (for all ASMs, possibly faster for small $n$). Similarly, Conca and Varbaro's result allows us to compute the depth of a quotient by any ASM ideal by instead computing the depth of the quotient by its antidiagonal initial ideal.  We would also like to create a function that gives the prime decomposition of an ASM ideal in terms of the permutations that index its components (which are necessarily Schubert determinantal ideals), either directly from the ASM lattice or by passing to the antidiagonal initial ideal and decomposing there.  With these tools in hand, it will be significantly easier for researchers in algebra and combinatorics to study the depth, free resolutions, K-polynomials, Grothendieck polynomials, and Hilbert series of ASM varieties.
